---
layout: post
title: "Book Review: Malice"
date: 2018-12-28 05:37 +0000
categories: [Book Review]
tags: [books, fiction]
---

> *Everyone has secrets. And everyone has the right to keep them. Even if they're dead.*

Keigo Higashino never fails to amuse me with perfect crimes and gripping mystery behind it. As usual, by the end of first chapter, the murder was committed, the how part was almost clear and we had a prime suspect. The rest of the story is a quest to find the motive behind the murder. Just when I thought it was over, the book had over 40% remaining and it was full of twists and turns.

Kunihiko Hidaka, a famous Japanese author, is found murdered in his house days before he was supposed to move to Canada. The body was discovered by his wife and his best friend. While investigating, Detective Kyoichiro Kaga comes across information that questions the authenticity of the author and the relationship with his friend.

The story resembles Devotion of Suspect X in many ways. There are old colleagues who know each other well. The conversation between them leads to a turning point in the investigation. But while trying to uncover the plot, the detective has to dig up far more than the suspect's past known to him.

Unlike other stories, Malice is written from the point of view of the detective and the victim's friend. This helps in setting the plot at the beginning. It also helped to break some conventional assumptions I had about the story.

> *Apparently, it won't do just to tell the reader what a particular character is like. The author needs to show their habits or their words and let the reader form an image on their own.*

I place Malice at the third position of my list of favourite Higashino novels. It comes after Devotion of Suspect X and Salvation of a Saint, pushing Journey Under the Midnight Sun and Midsummer's Equation one step backward. But I recommend this to anyone who loves crime thrillers.

Originally published on my blog: [Malice](https://mirrordimension.wordpress.com/2018/12/28/malice/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}
